---
title: "JobRunr & JobRunr Pro v7.3.0 "
summary: "New release packed with new enhancements and bug fixes!"
feature_image: /blog/2022-09-23-release.png
date: 2024-10-03T09:00:00+02:00
author: "Donata Petkevičiūtė"
tags:
  - blog
  - meta
---
{{< trial-button >}}

<div style="text-align: center;margin: -2em 0 2em;">
<small style="font-size: 70%;"><a href='https://www.freepik.com/vectors/cartoon-astronaut'></a></small>
</div>

<style type="text/css">
    .post-full-content img {display: inline-block; margin: 0 auto}
</style>

# It has been some time since the last release...

We are excited to announce the release of **JobRunr v7.3.0** and **JobRunr Pro v7.3.0**, packed with enhancements and bug fixes. This update brings significant improvements to both the open source and Pro versions, ensuring better performance, improved stability, and new capabilities to power your background job processing.

Whether you're using JobRunr or JobRunr Pro, this release has something for everyone. Let's dive into the key highlights of this release and why you should update today!

## **What’s new in JobRunr v7.3.0?**

This update brings full compatibility with **Quarkus 3.15 (latest LTS)** and **Kotlin 2.0.20**, keeping your tech stack up to date with the latest stable versions. 

### Quarkus improvements

In addition to support for Quarkus 3.15 (latest LTS), JobRunr v7.3.0 includes improved support for building native executables. Users will also benefit from better separation between build time and runtime properties. The primary goal of this enhancement is to allow users to enable or disable the `BackgroundJobServer` and the `DashboardWebServer` at runtime. Some users may also get a lighter native executable depending on the resources they choose to include!

### **End of support for MongoDB v3.6**

As MongoDB v3.6 has reached its official end of life back in 2021, we've decided to stop supporting it. If you're still running MongoDB v3.6, it's time to upgrade to a newer version to continue enjoying the full functionality of JobRunr.

### **Enhancements for job management**

JobRunr v7.3.0 focuses on improving the overall robustness of job scheduling and execution, including:

- **Improved thread safety** for `BackgroundJobServer`.
- **Better log visibility** for recurring jobs, with logs now showing skipped scheduled jobs at the `INFO` level instead of `DEBUG`, making it easier to track.
- **Sleep detection** and more other features that improve reliability in concurrent execution scenarios.

### **New configuration options**

- You can now configure the `serverTimeoutPollIntervalMultiplicand` via properties, allowing more control over job server timeouts.
- Custom `JsonMapper` configuration without needing a supported JSON library on the classpath, giving developers greater flexibility in how they handle JSON.

## **What's new in JobRunr Pro v7.3.0?**

### **Dashboard enhancements: trigger and queue scheduling for recurring jobs**

One of the key features of this release is the enhanced **JobRunr Pro dashboard**, which now provides different options while triggering `RecurringJob`s. In addition to the already available option of enqueuing your scheduled job immediately, you can now schedule it for a later time or enqueue it on a chosen priority queue.

### **Performance boost for re-initialising workflows**

We've significantly improved the performance of re-initialising workflows. However, this update introduces SQL migrations that may take some time to complete depending on the size of your database.

### **Improved Quarkus and MongoDB Support**

For Quarkus users, v7.3.0 brings further separation of build and run-time properties and better support for MongoDB integrations, ensuring your system runs faster and more efficiently.

### **Improved observability and monitoring**

JobRunr Pro now allows you to configure Micrometer and OpenTelemetry observability integration via properties, providing better job monitoring capabilities. Quarkus users will still need to programmatically provide the `MicroMeterJobObservability` bean due to missing built-in capability.

### **Why should you update?**

1. **Improved performance & scalability**: Benefit from improved thread safety, better job management and faster performance, especially for those running many jobs or re-queuing failed tasks.
2. **Enhanced configurability**: More control over server timeouts, observability integration and job scheduling.
3. **Latest tech stack compatibility**: Stay up to date with the latest versions of Quarkus and Kotlin, and avoid running outdated database versions such as MongoDB v3.6.
4. **Better developer experience**: With built-in sleep detection, more detailed logging, JobRunr continues to deliver a seamless and developer-friendly experience.

### 🔧 **How to update**

Updating to JobRunr v7.3.0 or JobRunr Pro v7.3.0 is simple! Follow the instructions in our [documentation]({{<ref "/documentation">}}) or visit [here](https://github.com/jobrunr/jobrunr/releases/tag/v7.3.0) for more details.

**Thank You to Our Contributors!**
A big shoutout to all the amazing contributors who helped make this release possible. We appreciate your efforts in helping JobRunr grow!

Ready to experience the new features and improvements? **Update to JobRunr v7.3.0** today and take your job processing to the next level!

Stay tuned for more updates, and don’t forget to share your feedback with us!

